# 2. Write

[How to write a video script for YouTube (epidemicsound.com)](https://www.epidemicsound.com/blog/how-to-write-a-video-script-for-youtube/)

## Brief

> I recreated Breakout in Godot, and this is how I made it.  

## The Hook

Introduce what Breakout is, how it fits into the 20 games challenge, and show step by step how I made it in Godot.

It should be simple and clean, straight to the point.

It should serve as just chill entertainment but also as a low-key tutorial.

## The Script

### Intro

#### Short history

> Breakout is an arcade video game developed and published by Atari back in 1976.  
> What's cool to think about is that giants like Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs, from the OG Apple company, were part of the design team of the OG Breakout.  

#### The 20 games challenge

> I'm part of a challenge named "The 20 Games Challenge", in which you recreate 20 existing games.  
> In this video, I'll show you how I recreated Breakout in Godot.  

### Research and planning

> First, I did some research.
>
> I collected everything I learned about the game in a Game Design Document, or GDD.  
> From that, I created GitHub issues and planned them out in a new GitHub project.
>
> Now I was ready to create.  

### The main scene

> I knew I wanted to have the game in portrait mode like the original, but also to make it more mobile-friendly.  
> So, I set up the project's resolution and the main scene with walls and a ceiling.  

### The paddle

> Next was the paddle, with a simple rectangle sprite and collisions.  
> The player controls the paddle using the mouse or a finger on touchscreen devices.  

### The ball

> Time for the ball: a simple square sprite for visuals and collisions.
>
> I had the ball spawn just above the paddle and lock it to the paddle movements.  
> When served, it flies in a random direction and bounces off the walls and paddle.  
> If the ball goes outside the screen, the ball resets, and you can reserve.  

### The bricks

#### Create the bricks

> Let's add some more to the gameplay: bricks.
>
> There will be 4 different types and colors.  
> And they should also result in different points.  

#### The brick handler

> To spawn the bricks, I created a brick handler.  
> It will also keep track of how many bricks are left.  

#### Destroyable

> When the ball hits a brick, it bounces off it, just like with walls and the paddle.  
> But it also destroys the brick, making it possible to clear the screen.  

### GameManager and score

#### Add a simple game manager

> Before I could add anything related to score or game states, I needed a game manager.  
> So, I created one that is accessible as a global script (much like a singleton) and added different properties I needed it to track.  

#### Update the score

> Now, I could update the score when a brick is destroyed directly from the brick itself and indicate how many points you should get for that brick.  
> Then, we need some way of displaying this, so I added the score UI on the top.  

### "Win" and lose condition

#### Clear the screen

> In this game, you can't win; you just rack up points until you lose or give up.
>
> But we still need the screen to reset when all the bricks are cleared.  
> So I made the brick handler do just that.  

#### Lives, losing, and end screen

> To set up the lose condition, I first started with giving the player 3 lives.  
> Whenever the player loses all lives, then we set the game state to game over.  
> When the game is over, you should be able to either restart or quit the game.  

### Ball speed and hard mode

#### Ball speed

> Different Breakout versions handle the speed of the ball differently.  
> In the original Breakout, however, you had 4 stages of speed:
>
> - Default speed
> - 2 times the default speed after destroying 4 bricks
> - 4 times the default speed after destroying 12 bricks
> - And 8 times the default speed after destroying an orange or red brick
>
> So I implemented that as well.

#### Hard mode

> Another special thing in the original game was that when you hit the ceiling, your paddle shrinks.  
> It makes the game super difficult, but I implemented that as well, so good luck.  

### Some polish

#### A main menu

> You can't have a game without a menu, so here is a simple main menu.  

#### Add audio

> Some classic SFX are also required for some game juice, created with JSFXR.  
> And to really pump you up, I also found an awesome soundtrack from Pixabay.  

#### Stats and dev mode

> And if you know me, you know I love game stats.  
> So I added some stats you can nerd about.
>
> By the way, I left some custom dev tools in the game for you to play around with.  
> How to use them is described on the game page.  

#### Add custom assets

> From here, I only did some final adjustments, like adding custom assets, fonts, a splash screen, and an icon.  

### Outro

> The game is playable on Itch, and the source code can be found on GitHub.  
> Both are linked in the description below.
>
> Thanks for watching, and I hope to see you when I remake Jetpack Joyride.
>
> Bye!
