# Building a useful Game Design Document
Someone recently asked me: "how do you do design planning? Do you have a priority list of things to design and create first?"
Here was my response:

I like google docs for this. Invite everyone on your team and use it to organize ideas and responsibilities. I will create a "Game Design Document" get everyone on a call and nail it down as quickly as possible. once everything has been decided, do not change your mind. you do not have time to change everything halfway through the game jam!

Everybody should agree on a gameplay loop first. How do you win , how do you lose? Artists should work on vision boards, decide on color palette and make concept art.
Musicians should work on motifs and themes together. Animators should make a list of the most important animations to the game. Developers need to agree on a few things, what kind of architecture and what are a list of the features you need for a minimum viable product.
Put ALL of this information into a single document where everyone has access to. That way, animators will know what devs need. Developers will know the names of the animations. Musicians will know how many levels need music. Environmental artists will have the same palette as the 3D artist. etc.

Also, do not plan past MVP. Only do that once you have finished making the MVP. a trap many teams fall into is they spend too much time planning too much work and they end up missing the game jam's deadline. Only add "extra cool stuff" after the MVP is done and you have tested it fully.