# Game Design Document - 11-01-2024

## Street Rivals: Showdown

**Code X**

| Name                    | Roll Number     |
|-------------------------|-----------------|
| Abu Bakar Tahir          | L1F21BSCS0503   |
| Musa Khan                | L1F21BSCS1264   |
| Muhammad Hassan Javed    | L1F21BSCS1057   |

- **Target Audience**: 7+
- **Gamer Type**: Casual
- **Target Platforms**: PC
- **Genre**: Sports
- **Number of Players**: 1 - 2

**Concept Image**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  ![](./image1.jpeg)
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

**Elevator Pitch (High Concept Statement)**

In \"Street Rivals,\" we target both casual and competitive gamers who
crave the intensity of one-on-one basketball matchups. This game is
designed for those who seek thrilling head-to-head competition and the
sheer joy of showcasing their individual skills on the court. The soul
of the game lies in its simplicity and emphasis on raw, unfiltered
player-versus-player action, creating an authentic and immersive
basketball experience.

Players take on the role of a street basketball Phenom, navigating an
urban playground to challenge and outplay opponents in intense 1v1
showdowns. The core mechanics blend realistic ball-handling, precise
shooting, and strategic defensive maneuvers, offering a mix of
skill-based gameplay and tactical decision-making. The goal is simple
yet exhilarating: outscore your opponent within the time limit,
showcasing your prowess in a fast-paced, street-style basketball
environment.

Set against the backdrop of vibrant urban landscapes, \"Street Rivals\"
captures the essence of street basketball culture, featuring
graffiti-adorned courts, dynamic weather conditions, and a pulsating
hip-hop soundtrack. The constraints on the player\'s progress and flow
are time-based, adding urgency to every possession and ensuring
non-stop, adrenaline-pumping action. The game aims to evoke a sense of
competitive excitement and achievement, tapping into the player\'s
desire for individual glory in the street basketball scene.

Visually, \"Street Rivals\" adopts a stylized 3D graphical style,
combining realistic player animations with a vibrant and expressive art
direction. The game\'s unique selling point lies in its focus on
head-to-head street basketball, offering an unparalleled experience that
sets it apart from other sports games. \"Street Rivals\" is accessible
on various gaming platforms, ensuring a broad reach for players to
engage in thrilling 1v1 matchups. The game is developed on a proprietary
engine, guaranteeing a seamless and visually striking experience for
players across different platforms.

**Feature Set (Pillars of the Game)**

Street Rivals: Showdown Features:

-   Authentic Street Basketball Action:

Immerse yourself in the gritty atmosphere of urban street basketball
with realistic courts, vibrant environments, and dynamic weather
conditions.

-   Intense 1v1 Showdowns:

Experience the thrill of head-to-head matchups, showcasing your
individual skills in fast-paced, adrenaline-fueled battles.

-   Skill-Based Gameplay:

Master realistic ball-handling, precise shooting, and strategic
defensive maneuvers to outplay your opponents.

-   Dynamic Playground Locations:

Navigate a variety of uniquely designed street courts, each with its own
challenges and opportunities for strategic play.

-   Time-Based Matches:

Feel the pressure of timed matches, adding urgency to every possession
and ensuring non-stop, action-packed gameplay.

-   Hip-Hop Soundtrack:

Groove to an energetic and authentic hip-hop soundtrack that amplifies
the street basketball vibe and keeps the momentum high.

-   Stylized 3D Graphics:

Enjoy visually striking, stylized 3D graphics that blend realism with a
vibrant art direction, bringing the street basketball culture to life.

-   Individual Player Progression:

Customize and level up your player, unlocking new skills, outfits, and
gear to showcase your unique style on the court.

-   Global Leaderboards:

Compete against players worldwide and climb the global leaderboards,
proving your skills and earning recognition as the ultimate street
basketball Phenom.

-   Raw, Unfiltered Street Basketball:

The game\'s primary focus on 1v1 street basketball differentiates it
from other sports games, offering a unique and authentic experience that
caters to both casual and competitive gamers.

**Design Influences**

The design of \"Street Rivals: Showdown\" draws inspiration from various
sources to create a unique and compelling gaming experience:

1.  NBA Street Series:

The NBA Street series serves as a key influence, particularly in
capturing the street basketball culture and delivering an accessible yet
skill-driven gameplay experience.

2.  Urban Street Culture:

Real-life experiences and observations of urban street culture heavily
influence the game\'s setting, aesthetics, and overall atmosphere. This
includes graffiti-adorned courts, dynamic weather conditions, and the
vibrant energy of street basketball.

3.  Chiptune and Hip-Hop Music:

The energetic chiptune and hip-hop soundtrack take inspiration from the
music culture associated with street basketball, enhancing the overall
mood and providing a dynamic auditory experience.

**Similar games that target a comparable audience include:**

-   NBA 2K Playground Series:

Like the NBA 2K Playground series, \"Street Rivals\" targets players who
enjoy the combination of realistic basketball mechanics with an emphasis
on street-style play.

-   NBA Street Vol. 2:

\"Street Rivals\" shares similarities with the classic NBA Street Vol. 2
in terms of capturing the essence of street basketball. However, the
focus on one-on-one matchups and the stylized 3D graphics set it apart.

**Differentiating factors for \"Street Rivals\" include:**

-   Exclusive 1v1 Focus:

While other games may feature team-based street basketball, \"Street
Rivals\" exclusively focuses on intense 1v1 matchups, providing a more
intimate and strategic experience.

-   Stylized 3D Graphics:

The combination of realistic yet stylized 3D graphics distinguishes
\"Street Rivals\" from other sports games, creating a visually striking
representation of street basketball culture.

-   Time-Based Matches:

The incorporation of timed matches adds a unique urgency to gameplay,
setting it apart from other street basketball games and contributing to
the game\'s fast-paced and action-packed nature.

**Game Flow**  
![Game Flow](./image2.png)

**Game Loop**  
![Game Loop](./image3.png)

**Scope Management**

**Green Light (Must-Haves for MVP):**

-   1v1 Gameplay: Implement the core mechanics for intense 1v1 street
    basketball matchups.

-   Basic Controls and Movement: Develop intuitive and responsive
    controls for player movement, ball-handling, shooting, and defensive
    actions.

-   2.5D Visuals: Create a visually appealing environment with stylized
    3D graphics in a 2.5D visual, capturing the essence of urban street
    basketball.

-   Timed Matches: Include the essential time-based game mechanic to add
    urgency and maintain a fast-paced gameplay experience.

-   Dynamic Street Court Locations: Design multiple street courts with
    distinct characteristics, providing varied settings for gameplay.

-   Chiptune/Hip-Hop Soundtrack: Integrate an energetic soundtrack that
    complements the urban street basketball theme.

-   Local Multiplayer: Introduce local multiplayer functionality for
    players to compete against friends on the same device.

**Yellow Light (Stretch Features - Nice to Have, Depending on
Resources):**

-   Player Customization and Progression: Add a system for player
    customization, allowing players to personalize their avatars and
    progress through the game with unlockable items.

-   Advanced Ball Physics: Enhance the realism of ball physics for a
    more immersive gaming experience.

-   Additional Game Modes: Consider developing additional game modes
    beyond 1v1, such as tournaments or challenges, to diversify the
    gameplay experience.

-   Enhanced Graphics and Animations: Invest in more detailed graphics
    and animations to further elevate the visual appeal.

**Red Light (Stretch Features - May Be Considered for Future Updates or
Sequels):**

-   Story Mode/Narrative: Develop a narrative-driven story mode for a
    deeper engagement with the street basketball world.

-   Augmented Reality (AR) Integration: Explore the integration of AR
    features for an innovative and immersive gameplay experience.

-   Online Tournaments and Events: Implement scheduled online
    tournaments and events to build a competitive community.

-   Realistic Weather Effects: Introduce realistic weather effects,
    impacting gameplay dynamics and adding an extra layer of strategy.

-   Expanded Social Features: Enhance social features, such as in-game
    chat, friend lists, and player profiles, to foster a stronger sense
    of community.

-   Global Leaderboards: Implement a system to track and display player
    rankings globally, encouraging competition.

-   Cross-Platform Play: Enable cross-platform play to broaden the
    player base and create a more vibrant community.

-   Allow a switching to First-Person Mode from the 2.5D mode to 3D mode
    in Options to allow players to play in the way they like.

It\'s essential to prioritize features based on the MVP concept to
ensure a solid foundation for the game\'s launch while allowing for
potential future enhancements and expansions based on the game\'s
reception and available resources.
